---
layout: post
title: Puul Token
subtitle: Puul Tokenomics
gh-repo: PuulFinance/puulfinance.github.io
gh-badge: [follow]
tags: [puul,token,defi]
comments: false
---

The PUUL token is the main token in the Puul ecosystem. Owning PUUL tokens conveys many benefits in the Puul protocol, including:

1. Governance Voting
2. Staking to Acquire an Income Stream
3. Exclusive Pools only for PUUL Token Holders
4. Other Exclusive Offers from Puul.

#### PUUL Token has Value

By staking the PUUL token in the PUUL Staking Pool, you can earn an income stream. Currently,50% of the fees generated by the Puul protocol flow into the Puul Staking Pool.
Staking PUUL tokens gives you access to that stream. This can amount to substantial income. The Puul protocol can easily support hundreds and even thousands
of pools, vaults, and farms, so these fees will add up quickly.

#### Governance

PUUL tokens can be used to vote on the governance of the Puul protocol. Like what pools to support and the fees associated with those pools. 

Governance will eventually control all aspects of the Puul protocol.

#### Exclusive Pools only for PUUL Token Holders

Some pools and farms will be created only for PUUL token holders. These will typically be high APY pools that we want to share exclusively with token holders.

#### Other Exclusive Opportunities

Due to the flexibility of the Puul protocol, it's very easy for us to attach special incentives and rewards that flow to Puul token holders.

### Tokenomics

The PUUL tokenonmics are simple:

* 80% of the initial allocation (100,000 PUUL) will be distributed via liquidity mining.
* 30% goes to the Treasury. The Treasury is a multisig under the control of governance, and will determine the best use of the funds in the treasury.
* 20% goes to the development team.
* The Treasury and governance will determine any future PUUL token minting/burning.
