---
layout: post
title: Puul Token
subtitle: Puul Tokenomics
gh-repo: PuulFinance/puulfinance.github.io
gh-badge: [follow]
tags: [puul,token,defi]
comments: false
---

The PUUL token is the main token in the Puul ecosystem. Owning PUUL tokens conveys many benefits in the Puul protocol, including:

1. Governance Voting
2. Staking to Acquire an Income Stream
3. Exclusive Pools only for PUUL Token Holders
4. Other Exclusive Offers from Puul.

#### PUUL Token has Value

By staking the PUUL token in the PUUL Staking Pool, you can earn an income stream. Currently, 85% of the fees generated by the Puul protocol flow into the Puul Staking Pool.
Staking PUUL tokens gives you access to that stream. This can amount to substantial income. The Puul protocol can easily support hundreds and even thousands
of pools, vaults, and farms, so these fees will add up quickly.

#### Governance

PUUL tokens can be used to vote on the governance of the Puul protocol. Like what pools to support and the fees associated with those pools. 

Governance will eventually control all aspects of the Puul protocol.

#### Exclusive Pools only for PUUL Token Holders

Some pools and farms will be created only for PUUL token holders. These will typically be high APY pools that we want to share exclusively with token holders.

#### Other Exclusive Opportunities

Due to the flexibility of the Puul protocol, it's very easy for us to attach special incentives and rewards that flow to Puul token holders.

### Tokenomics

The PUUL tokenonmics are simple to start - 80% of the initial allocation (100,000 PUUL) will be distributed to the community, and 20% to the development team.

The community distribution will be as follows:

1. Fixed price sale of tokens.
2. Liquidity mining.

We will be having an initial token sale in the near future of 10,000 PUUL tokens.

Remember, 85% of the fees currently being generated by the available pools is flowing into the PUUL Staking Pool. If you stake PUUL tokens in that pool,
you can start collecting those fees. We anticipate there being a substantial amount of rewards waiting to be harvested, so staking PUUL tokens
will have immediate.

Governance will determine any future PUUL token distribution.
